# Comparison and analysis of different algorithms on box2d gym environments.

Project done under Prof. Chinmay Hegde for Deep Learning course along with team member Siddharth Chaudhary

The initial idea was to compare and analyze various deep reinforcement and evolutionary learning algorithms with the help of the OpenAI Gym Environment, but preliminary results shed a light to the computational complexities of some tasks. Through this project we conclude that performance of each algorithm is highly task dependent and that a lot of trade-offs exist between the two.

In Deep Reinforcement learning, we implemented DDPG and DQN. DQN discritizes the action space. It has worked well in complex environments (like Atari games), but when the action space is continuous (esp. Tasks involving physical control), discretization results in a very large action space. DDPG solves this issue, and we could use it for ‘LunarLanderContinous-v2’. As the critic approximates the maximizer over the Q-values, DDPG can be seen as an approximate DQN method. Hence a comparatively better result was found with DDPG.

The biggest challenge that we have faced so far is computational cost especially in the NEAT algorithm which lacks gpu support. In theory NEAT should perform better, given the condition it has enough cores available for parallelization, but since at every generation, a new population of the same size is generated, run for same number of time steps, the number of parameters keep multiplying thus increasing time complexity on basic computing machines. In complex tasks where evolutionary algorithm such as NEAT took 3 days and still did not solve the environment, DDPG with the support of CUDA toolkit, trained on GeForce GTX 1660 Ti, with 6GB memory and a compute compatibility of 7.5 was able to solve it in approximately an hour. Due to the complexity of these algorithms in terms of number of hyper-parameters, we could not perform a grid search in order to find optimal hyper-parameters. Values that were found to be most well-suited from the literature survey we had conducted were used.
